do you know your seo from your ppc
and your cro from your social proof well
no problem if not i'm gonna break down
common digital marketing terms with some
simple analogies
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host of the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
and if you haven't yet check out our
weekly email where we share useful
podcasts
actionable marketing tips free guides
resources and much much more to start
your week off with a bang each and every
monday you can sign up today over at
businessgrowth.email
i'm gonna share seven of the most common
analogies that i use in the day-to-day
when it comes to digital marketing terms
to make them clear simple and easy to
understand so let's jump in so first up
we've got seo which stands for search
engine optimization and it's the process
of getting your website to that
all-important top position one spot on
google's organic non-paid search so
often compare seo to a mortgage there's
a mortgage just like seo is a long-term
commitment with a mortgage you typically
put down a deposit and you're making
steady monthly payments to get you to
that all-important position of fully
owning your house wherever seo your
steadily each and every month doing work
on your website off of your website
creating content distributing content
building links tracking reporting
staying up to date with the google
algorithm and getting that steady
process to get your website to page one
of google and enjoy the fruits of your
labor so increased web traffic
brand visibility
increasing your reputation increasing
your revenue or your sales leads so much
like a mortgage it is a long-term
commitment a long-term investment to
make steady progress next up we've got
ppc which stands for pay-per-click so
this could be google adwords it could be
google display ads it could be linkedin
advertising or facebook ads basically
you pay each time someone clicks your ad
so i often compare ppc to renting a
property so it's a quick way to get on
the market quick way to get yourself a
home
but the moment you stop paying your ads
are going to be no longer live and just
like renting your landlord is going to
kick you out on your ass if you stop
paying your bills so it's a quick route
entry
and the thing is ppc can work alongside
seo so if you run google ads you can get
relatively quickly in front of your
target market that are searching for
your services or products you can run
them alongside seo so as a short term
strategy come on ads long term you can
do your organic listings so that means
when someone does a google search for
your product you're offering they're
asking a question they might see your
ads they might see your organic seo
listing it gives you two opportunities
two bites at the cherry builds up your
brand visibility and there's a good
pretty fast route to market at number
three we've got web design so i often
compare websites to building a house
reason being is you wouldn't start just
chucking bricks together trying to put
doors in trying to put windows in
because the property is going to fall
apart you need a solid foundation to
build upon and your website's the same
you need a solid step-by-step process so
typically instead of the foundations you
do research you'd understand who's the
target customer who want to track with
the website what do they care about
seeing common problems
what they want to get out of it and how
we can convert them on our website from
browser to an inquiry or a sale
depending on what what we want to do
so you follow a step-by-step process
with research then doing the design then
bringing the designs to life with
development then testing and launching
and then bringing it to market with
digital marketing
so it's good to think of your website as
a
similar to building a house because
you're doing that step-by-step process
getting the foundations right with your
research then steadily building upon
what you learn to make sure your website
is a success and number four we've got
social proof
so social proof typically when you're
talking about websites landing pages and
digital marketing this might come in the
form of
customer reviews perhaps customer videos
case studies
accreditations testimonials and all that
good stuff so when you're perhaps
searching for a service or a product and
you stumble upon someone's website
you'll gain credibility confidence that
they can actually do the job that you
need done because you're seeing examples
of past clients they've helped perhaps
they've got accreditations or industry
awards perhaps they're sharing a case
study of the problem someone came to you
with
how you help them overcome it and the
end desired result and outcome
and i compare this to a cv
and the reason being is a cv is
something you'll hand a potential
employer
to really build trust that you're the
person for the job perhaps you'll share
past experiences perhaps you've got
references from past companies and
people that you've worked with all in
the form of trust building so social
proof is a massive trust builder when
leveraged right
for your landing pages your website in
digital marketing coming in at number
five we have sponsored ads what the heck
is sponsored ads well in the software
world these might be sites like capterra
g2 or clutch or in construction it might
be trusted trader or trusted tradesman
there's a bunch of different sites in
many different industries but basically
aggregate a bunch of vendors suppliers
so when you do a google search they tend
to rank pretty highly because they've
got so much useful content so many
different companies signed up they
they're often near the top and you'll
click the listing and it will come up
with a bunch of suppliers that fit the
requirement that you've just searched
for
so
how do i often compare these sponsored
ads what's the analogy i use well i
often say that they're like the old
school yellow pages
because believe it or not when the
yellow pages were first out companies
used to actually start their company
name with the letter a
just so they'd be right at the front of
the yellow pages so when you're
searching for something they come up
right at the very top and you're most
likely to check them out and give them a
call well sponsored ads aren't so
different so when you're perhaps
searching for a software vendor you see
one of these sites to get to the top of
these sites listings you actually pay
them so you pay them a sponsorship fee
usually per month and that's how you get
to the top and that's a simple analogy i
like to use next up we've got cro and
that stands for conversion rate
optimization and this is basically where
you make changes or tweaks to your
landing pages
to your website to improve the amount of
visitors you convert into leads or
paying customers and often it's done by
using data looking at analytics tools
looking at heat maps looking at surveys
looking at how people interact with your
website so looking at tools like google
analytics
hotjar really comparing where people are
clicking where people are dropping off
and using data to your advantage to make
small tweaks changes to your text your
copy your design your layout to convert
the all important visitors you are
getting in into the maximum amount of
leads or sales possible so often compare
cro to
do you know when you go to a gas station
or a petrol station and quite often when
you're just about to pay for your fuel
they'll put coffees they'll put red
bulls they'll put donuts they'll put all
the sweet snacks right by that counter
they don't do this by chance they do it
because they know when you're just about
to pay you'll make that impulse buy
because perhaps you're feeling a bit
tired perhaps you need a little
pick-me-up and that's where they're
going to convert you to get that extra
purchase and cro is the same so making
small tweaks to get that conversion that
could be something like on your inquiry
form perhaps reducing the amount of form
filled so perhaps normally you ask for
first name surname
company name number of employees
all these different things all these
complex long form fields and just by
reducing the form fields to something
like name
what's your inquiry your email and your
phone number
it lowers the friction it reduces the
ask from your prospect
therefore they're more likely to take
the time and convert so that's a working
example of crav finally at number seven
we've got building a personal brand so
building a personal brand i can give a
working example is
basically how i sprung up out of nowhere
on linkedin
started creating content in my case
around websites around seo and providing
daily tips really so giving examples of
simple ways that you can make your seo
more effective
simple ways to increase more leads from
your website
answering common questions i get from
clients and putting out videos text
content images all to help my ideal
clients build up my reputation as
someone who's trusted that can do great
websites and seo with my company and
over time
building up my authority my credibility
and getting inquiries either through our
website or direct through linkedin
and personal brand doesn't have to be
directly on linkedin it can be on other
social channels but that's just an
actual example that i can give you
now i compare building a personal brand
to
working out at the gym because it's not
something you can just post once on
social and ghost and then you're going
to get a ton of followers you're getting
a ton of dms a ton of leads and build up
your credibility as a trusted person in
your space or your industry just doesn't
happen right with social you've got to
do a bunch of posts each and day to
build up your credibility you've got to
engage on other people's profiles and
comment on their post and build up that
way so the gym's the same you can't just
go once and get shredded abs or get
super fit or get super lean you've got
to put in the reps
you've got to do the work consistently
so if you're going to the gym that might
mean one day you've got to do chest the
next day you've got to do your back and
your biceps the next day you've got to
do your legs maybe day four you're gonna
do cardio and maybe you work out a
routine of four or five days of the gym
eating clean
eating smart with your veggies your
meats your proteins
getting enough water intake and
following a consistent plan and building
a personal brand on social is just the
same you can't just do it once and
expect results you've got to follow a
fairly careful routine
to make it happen and get the results
that you desire and there you have it
those are my seven tips to make digital
marketing nice and simple with easy to
understand analogies hope you found this
episode of use if you're tuning in from
youtube a quick subscribe is very much
appreciated or if you're on the audio
podcast a quick rating or review i'd be
very very thankful for and with that i
should catch you on the next one cheers